# Gryphons

Like their counterparts in terran mythology, Kyrodian gryphons are hybrids of raptors and large felines. In addition to raptors, though, the bird half can also be one of a variety of corvids. While such distinctions would be enough to define whole species of birds and cats, with gryphons, these animal halves are determined by a few chromosomes, and can be interbred freely, allowing for as many possible combinations as one could make using a 2D array, with birds being one dimension, and cats being the other. The exception to this is the rarer subspecies known as the hummingryph, which is too small to breed with other gryphons, but can still have a variety of cat halves.

Gryphons normally live at high altitudes, be it in mountains or even halls built on skylands. Their architecture bears a Scandin-*avian* theme, like nords with more feather-related decorations. In the case of skyland villages, bridges are often built with heavy chain links to help keep the floating land masses from drifting apart, as well as for making ground-based transport between them possible. A village proper is actually a rare thing to find, as most gryphon settlements consist of a single large communal hall with a few exterior service buildings that wouldn't be suitable to share space with living quarters. Forges, storage, and other specialized functions are kept to their own small buildings around outside the main hall, but depending on average weather conditions, may have covered walkways connecting them.

When it comes to [magic](magic.md), gryphons are the fifth most adept at it, behind [nagas](nagas.md), [marstels](marstels.md), [kholu](kholu.md), and [dragons](dragons.md). Their area of expertise centers around pooling their energies to control weather, using hail and thunder in combat, and pressurizing the air around their homes to keep from having to fight the wind, as well as keeping land-bound visitors from being blown off the heights they live at.

During the Feudal and early Biometal War eras, gryphons were known for actively hunting other people, most notably kholu and [humans](humans.md). After the war, however, it became illegal to hunt sapient prey, and even discussing it is a taboo among their culture. Despite this, there are still some gryphons who view land-bound races as inferior, and may make off-handed comments about eating them, even if they wouldn't actually do it.

## Atmoskyr

One of the great bastions during the Biometal War, Atmoskyr was built upon one of Kyroda's largest skylands. It is a communal hall that spans most of the skyland's surface, and unlike smaller settlements, has its services adapted to be mostly indoors. Buried at the heart of the skyland is a massive core of pure fulgurite, which is charged using a mirror array to generate energy that runs the perpetual thunderstorm that serves as the city's main defense. The core also energizes the levitite ore in the skyland to help counter the weight of the population above.
